# EPilepsy_EEG
 

 
 # Introduction :
 Artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to transform how healthcare is delivered. A joint report with the  European Union’s EIT Health explores how it can support improvements in care outcomes, patient experience  and access to healthcare services. It can increase productivity and the efficiency of care delivery and allow  healthcare systems to provide more and better care to more people. AI can help improve the experience of  healthcare practitioners, enabling them to spend more time in direct patient care and reducing burnout. 
Epileptic seizures result from a temporary electrical disturbance of the brain. Sometimes seizures may go  unnoticed, depending on their presentation, and sometimes may be confused with other events, such as a  stroke, which can also cause falls or migraines. Approximately one in every 100 persons will experience a  seizure at some time in their life (Iasemidis et al., 2003). Unfortunately, the occurrence of an epileptic seizure  seems unpredictable and its process is very little understood. Electroencephalogram (EEG) has been the most  utilized signal to clinically assess brain activities. EEG is a record of the electrical potentials generated by the  cerebral cortex nerve cells. Since routine clinical diagnosis needs analysis of EEG signals, some automation  and computer techniques have been used for this aim. This report will present the technical steps applied in  order to conceive an automatic system for epilepsy detection.  
The first chapter will be an introduction to the project, explaining its context and presenting the host  organization and methodologies followed. As for the second chapter, it would represent a vision focused on  the business understanding model and the appropriate data mining objectives. The third chapter is where we  will talk about understanding data before tackling data preparation in chapter four so that we can move on to  modelling in chapter five where we focus on choosing and testing the various algorithms. Chapter six is an  evaluative chapter during which we check whether the chosen model meets the set objectives. At the end of  this project, we move on to the deployment of the project and the creation of a web interface to be able to  properly use the epilepsy detection system created.

# Project’s process model: CRISP-DM  :
CRISP-DM method (The Cross-Industry Standard Process for Data Mining) was originally developed by  IBM in the 1960s to carry out Data Mining projects. It remains today the only method that can be used  effectively for all Data Science projects. CRISP-DM was not built in a theoretical framework, academically,  nor by an elite committee of behind closed doors. These two approaches to the development of methods  have been tried in the past, but have rarely led to practical standards, with widely adopted success. CRISP DM succeeded because it is solidly based on practical experience, the real world of how specialists manage  Data Mining projects. 

# 1) Business Understanding :
Epilepsy is a serious chronic neurological disorder that can be detected by analyzing signals produced  by neurons in the brain, monitoring of these brain signals is usually done using Electroencephalogram (EEG),  so an expert is needed to analyze all of them. EEG recordings to detect epileptic activity this method is  obviously long and tedious, hence the importance of data science in this domain. 
To cope up with this problem, it is required to develop the most robust and promising techniques to detect the  epileptic activity in EEG signals. 

## Determine Business objective 
### 1- Diagnose the patient’s condition : 
In this phase we aim to identify epileptic patients and non epileptic patients. 
### 2- Recognize seizure types : 
Seizures can be into two groups: 

 ####i. Generalized seizures affect both sides of the brain: 
 
  ##### ● Absence seizures can cause rapid blinking or a few seconds of staring into space 
  ##### ● Tonic-clonic seizures: usually begin on both sides of the brain, but can start on one side and  spread to the whole brain. 
 #### ii. Focal seizures :
 
  #####  ● Simple focal seizures affect a small part of the brain. 
  #####  ● Complex focal seizures can make a person with epilepsy confused or dazed. 
   ##### ● Secondary generalized seizures begin in one part of the brain, but then spread to both sides of  the brain. 
### 3- Foresee epileptic seizure appearance :

20Seizures can have rhythms, therefore it would be possible to predict when seizures will occur. For  many people living with epilepsy, predictability could mean more control over their lifestyles and a drastic  
improvement in life quality.The epilepsy cycle includes three phases: 

##### ● Ictal phase: It's the time from the first symptom to the end of the seizure activity.It is during this time  that intense electrical activity is occurring in the brain. 
##### ● Preictal phase: this is the time before the seizure. It can last from minutes to days and make people  act and feel differently. 
##### ● Interictal : the period between seizures. 
### 4- Reduce the time required for epilepsy diagnosis : 
Through the implementation of our system, we aim to decrease the time needed for epilepsy diagnosis by  proposing a solution that will ensure a fast and an efficient detection of the disease. 

# Data Understanding :

# seizure-detection--EEG
DATASET :
 The TUH EEG Epilepsy Corpus (TUEP): This is a subset of TUEG that contains 100 subjects epilepsy and 100 subjects without epilepsy, as determined by a certified neurologist. The data was developed in collaboration with a number of partners including NIH.
 https://www.isip.piconepress.com/projects/tuh_eeg/downloads/tuh_eeg_epilepsy/
 
 
The main purpose of this phase is to associate the data with their signification from a business perspective,  to determine precisely the data to be analysed and to determine its quality.  
